Pushing the boundaries of EUV scatterometry:
reconstruction of complex nanostructures for next-generation
transistor technology
Richard Ciesielskia, Leonhard M. Lohra, Hans Mertensb, Anne-Laure Charleyb, Rudi de Ruyterb, Janusz Bogdanowiczb, Philipp Ho ̈nickea, Najmeh Abbasirada, and Victor Soltwischa
aPhysikalisch-Technische Bundesanstalt (PTB), Abbestr. 2-12, 10587 Berlin, Germany bIMEC, Kapeldreef 75, B-3001 Leuven, Belgium
ABSTRACT
EUV scatterometry can retrieve geometrical information from nanoscale grating structures through elastic scattering of EUV radiation and the evaluation of the diffraction intensities. Its geometry and energy range place it in between grazing incidence X-ray scattering (GISAXS) and optical critical dimension (OCD). PTB recently commissioned a new scatterometry setup for the EUV and soft X-ray region that can address sample areas below 100 × 100 μm size by using a comparably steep, grazing angle of incidence of up to 30◦. At the same time, the full cone of exit angles of 30◦ can be detected such that also the higher orders can be recorded in scatterometry measurements. It has been commissioned at PTB’s monochromatic soft X-ray beamline at the synchrotron radiation facility BESSY II and can also be used for simultaneous X-ray fluorescence detection. Its great tunability and energy resolution allows to scan across absorption edges of the relevant semiconductor materials to increase the contrast between different materials. The nanoscale geometry of modern transistor designs features different materials and structure sizes in the single digit nanometer range. Using the information wealth of spectrally resolved scatterometry measurements from the new setup, we present data and first geometrical reconstructions of selected, complex, industry-relevant design studies. The geometrical reconstruction of these structures relies on precise measurements, modelling of the scattering process, and statistical data evaluation methods.
Keywords: EUV scatterometry, soft X-ray scattering, geometrical reconstruction, nano-metrology, forksheet
Figure 1. The reconstruction of geometrical parameters by EUV scatterometry is done using a model fit of the measured scattering data to an FEM based model function. Shown is a schematic of the non-collinear scattering geometry.
Corresponding author: richard.ciesielski@ptb.de
Metrology, Inspection, and Process Control XXXVII, edited by John C. Robinson, Matthew J. Sendelbach, Proc. of SPIE Vol. 12496, 124961M © 2023 SPIE · 0277-786X · doi: 10.1117/12.2658501
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 12496 124961M-1


1. INTRODUCTION
Soft X-ray scattering data of periodic nanostructures contains information about the scatterer on the nanoscale. Obtaining the geometrical shape and materials distribution in real space from data in k-space is an inverse problem with a large number of unknowns that crucially depends on detailed modeling of the light-matter interaction within the samples.
Modern chip manufacturing requires versatile, fast, and reliable inline metrology techniques to ensure, as well as to adjust the quality of produced semiconductor nanostructures. The critical dimensions came down to few nanometers in recent years and will continue to shrink. Additionally, to-date semiconductor structures are entering the 3D domain, and are becoming more and more complex regarding shape and the materials used. To monitor and control the individual production steps, wafers contain metrology fields with periodic nanostructures that resemble the most critical dimensions of the actual structures. X-ray scattering experiments detect the resulting diffraction orders (see Figure 1), whose intensity distribution contains averaged information about the grating structure. In comparison to optical critical dimension (OCD), EUV scatterometry operates on a much smaller wavelength range, which allows to use more than the zeroth diffraction order of the optical response.1, 2 In principle, this allows for higher detail, because it retrieves more optical information. We here present first EUV scatterometry measurements on dedicated metrology pads of a typical size of 80 × 80 μm using a newly developed sample chamber that allows to address a very small sample area.
We model these measurements, using an finite element method (FEM) Maxwell solver3 and feed the results into an optimization scheme with a combination of global and local peak findings algorithms, which eventually produce the looked-for parameters.4 Roughness and imperfections can be included using approximations like the Debye-Waller factor5, 6 which damps the intensity of higher diffraction orders.
For complex nanostructures, as they are relevant for modern semiconductor industries, the modelling itself can be challenging. We here show an approach to modern nanostructures, the so-called forksheet samples, which we model in a simplified fashion.
2. A SETUP FOR EUV SCATTEROMETRY ON SMALL SAMPLE AREAS
Figure 2. Setup for EUV scatterometry (top) and comparison to GISAXS instrumentation (bottom). (a) Schematic of the beam footprint for comparable beam size, (b) technical drawings of the experimental chambers and apparatus, (c) photographs of EUV scatterometry and GISAXS instrumentation, showing the different physical scales and the position of sample and area detector for elastically scattered radiation.
Scattering data of periodic nanostructures can be recorded in different energy ranges. The chosen photon energy determines the maximum angle of incidence through the achievable reflectance of the sample. At X-ray
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 12496 124961M-2


energies, only a small angle of incidence is permissible since the reflectance of materials is very low in general. Therefore, for photon energies of 5 keV to 10 keV, GISAXS with its very shallow incident angles is used.7 This geometry of grazing angles of incidence leads to a projection of the beam to wide areas of the sample with a resulting beam footprint that has a length of centimeters (see Figure 2a). The grazing angle geometry furthermore requires a very long distance between sample and detector to be able to achieve a good angular resolution.4 In contrast, in the EUV the angle of incidence can be much larger since the reflectance is much higher in this energy range. As a consequence, also the beam footprint becomes smaller. Furthermore, many absorption edges lie in the EUV/soft X-ray range, which can be used to address specific elements. We recently commissioned a measurement chamber that can operate at an angle of incidence of up to 30◦, see Figure 2. In comparison to grazing incidence techniques, the spotsize at the sample is small (Figure 2a). Using a pinhole before the sample reduces the beam size such that specific sample areas with a size of below 100 × 100 μm can be addressed. The overall compact design of the chamber with a distance between sample and detector of only few millimeters allows to detect the full scattering cone with all diffraction orders using a CCD (c.f. Figure 2b and c).
The angle of incidence (pitch) of the measurement chamber can be varied from −2 . . . 30◦ to adjust the angle on incidence at the sample’s surface. The sample’s azimuthal angle (yaw) can be turned in between −2 . . . 10◦ and its horizontal and vertical position are adjustable to select a specific points at the sample for investigation. All movable axes inside the vacuum chamber are lubricant-free to avoid contamination with carbonous materials of samples and equipment. The detector for scatterometry is a CCD for the soft X-ray regime with 2048 × 2048 pixels of (13.5 μm)2 size, installed a few millimeters away from the sample orthogonal to the beam. It records all diffraction spots at once, similar to GISAXS. Additionally, the chamber is equipped with a silicon drift detector (SDD) opposite to the sample for hybrid detection of scattering and X-ray fluorescence.
The instrument is installed at the soft X-ray radiometry beamline in PTB’s laboratories at the synchrotron radiation facility BESSY II in Berlin,8, 9 whose source is a bending magnet. The beamline provides monochromatic, s-polarized radiation in a photon energy range between 50 eV and 1800 eV with a relative bandwidth of better than 2 × 10−3. At the position of the measurement chamber, the beam has a total size of 5 × 3 mm (h × v) with a divergence of about 1.6 mrad in the horizontal and 0.4 mrad in the vertical direction. The energy-dependent radiant power of the total beam ranges between 0.01 . . . 10 μW9 and is strongly reduced by the pinhole in use. Pinholes with diameters between 20 μm and 1200 μm can be installed to adjust the beam size at the sample. Further information and detail about this setup are published elsewhere.10
3. RECONSTRUCTION OF COMPLEX NANOSTRUCTURES: FORKSHEET SAMPLES
3.1 Sample material
EUV and soft X-ray scatterometry, as well as GISAXS, proved to be useful tools to reconstruct the geometry of comparably simple grating structures with high accuracy and precision.4, 11, 12 In these cases, the focus lay on the determination of geometrical features such as the critical dimension, side wall angles, corner rounding, and the surface roughness. These gratings represent the basic building blocks of transistor technology, hence the great interest of the community in their detailed reconstruction.12, 13 As feature sizes become smaller, also the complexity of the basic transistor elements is increasing. Nowadays, the well-understood MOSFET (metal-oxidesemiconductor field-effect-transistor) technology has progressed in many steps to FinFET14 and gate-all-around (GAA)15 technology, which likely will be surpassed by so called forksheet devices in the near future,16 allowing for an even denser packaging and performance advantages. The samples, used in this study, are a preliminary version of the forksheet structures in a periodic arrangement contained on a metrology test pad of 80 μm×80 μm dimension. Its unit cell is shown in Figure 3(a) in a TEM cross section. It contains key elements, such as the fin’s core of SiN, which acts as insulation between Si ”forks” on the left and the right. In the final design, the Si forks would have different n and p-doping on both sides of the fin to produce a field-effect transistor with source, drain, and gate, where in the present sample, the silicon parts are still undoped. The sample design contains two sorts of surface trench isolations (STI), one in the center, below the fin core, and one between the individual forksheets. The depicted unit cell repeats to the left and the right but is homogeneous throughout the third dimension. The SiGe layers, visible in this sample, are a sacrificial part that will be etched away in a
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 12496 124961M-3


Figure 3. Geometrical modelling parameters of (unetched) forksheet samples based on a TEM cross section. Shown is a unit cell of the periodic nanostructure that is homogeneous in the third dimension. (a) TEM cross section, indicating the geometrical parameters, used in the model. (b) Model geometry with FEM mesh and colored materials. See main text for further details.
later process step. For the present study, we investigate two forksheet samples of the same production line: one with fully intact sacrificial SiGe layers and one that has undergone a partial removal of the SiGe by dry etching.
3.2 Modelling approach
We here present first elastic scattering data in the EUV from preliminary, periodic forksheet samples recorded with the compact EUV scatterometry chamber, described earlier (see Section 2), and attempt a model-based reconstruction of the geometrical model parameters. Figure 3(a) presents a TEM cross section of the samples with indicated geometrical parameters. EUV scatterometry does not measure the geometry directly, but collects its information in k-space. The actual reconstruction is done by a model fit of the recorded data to a suitable model. We use a finite element method to simulate the EUV scatterometry measurements3 and incorporate roughness of the sample’s surfaces by a Debye-Waller factor with a roughness parameter σr as described in 5, 6. Figure 3(b) shows the FEM model that was developed for this study. Since the sample is quite complex, the model needs to apply simplifications over the actual geometry. For instance, certain assumptions about the geometry of non-key elements, like the STI parts, were made to reduce the number of geometrical parameters. Furthermore, the side walls are considered straight, even though it can be seen from the TEM that the side walls are not perfectly vertical. There are process-dependent voids inside the fin’s core, which are of inhomogeneous size and position throughout the sample. These voids are not directly modelled but accounted for as a reduction of the mass density of SiN. In addition to these model parameters, the etch depth is introduced as free parameter for samples which have undergone the etching process to (partially) remove the sacrificial SiGe layers.
For the FEM model, the energy-dependent optical constants of all materials must be given, because the resulting field distribution sensitively depends on their values.17, 18 In the used energy range between 115 eV and 145 eV, we use tabulated data from the CXRO data base.19 The corresponding densities are additional model parameters. The silicon nitride fin in the center contains mass fractions of 0.39 silicon, 0.53 nitrogen, and 0.08 hydrogen. Its relative total density is an additional fit parameter, accounting for the void inside the SiN fin’s core (c.f. Figure 3(a)). The silicon/germanium sacrificial layers contain mass fractions of 0.75 silicon and 0.25 germanium. The unknown exact optical constants of the materials used play a significant role in the total uncertainty of the model.
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 12496 124961M-4


3.3 Sensitivity of the model
Figure 4. Sensitivity of the presented FEM model of the forksheet samples to small changes in the parameters.
Figure 4 presents a sensitivity study of the model on its parameters. From a given starting point (”original”), all parameters were varied by a small amount and a corresponding FEM model was built for all sets of parameters. Then, the models were evaluated at a photon wavelength of 13.5 nm under a grazing angle of incidence of 30◦. The resulting scattering intensities of the different diffraction orders (−3 . . . 3) are directly compared to the original set in Figure 4. As can be seen, the changes in the calculated scattering intensities are prominent for all viewed parameters in all diffraction orders. Since the chosen model contains plenty of free geometrical and material parameters, using the available information from the higher diffraction orders greatly benefits the reconstruction.
3.4 Fitting procedure
The fitting procedure calculates the diffraction intensities of the model for a given parameter set in a broad spectral range and minimizes the difference to the experimentally obtained values by variation of the model parameters. The calculated intensities Icalc(n, E|{p}) are a function of the diffraction order n, the photon energy E, and the parameter set {p}. In addition to the sample-related parameters, that were described in the previous section, setup-related parameters have to be included here, too. In a measurement, the angle of incidence and azimuthal angle can only be set to a certain accuracy and since the outcome of EUV scatterometry measurements depend sensitively on these angles, they must be included to the set of fitting parameters. Obtaining absolute reflection data in the experiment through normalization of the experimental values R = Iexp(n, E)/I0 to the incoming beam intensity is not possible for technical reasons,10 so a single scaling factor c needs to be incorporated in the optimization to match the numerical values of experiment and simulation. The objective function χ2 for the optimization is given by the absolute squared residuals, weighted by the numerical error:
χ2 {p} = mcin
X
n,E
Iexp(n, E) − c · Icalc(n, E|{p})
2
σ2(E) . (1)
It represents the sum over all energy values E and diffraction orders n with a scaling factor c, accounting for the unknown normalization of the experimental values. The scaling factor c is determined through minimization of the function value in equation 1. The numerical error σ(E) represents an estimate to the accuracy of the model and is approximated by an intensity dependent part a and a constant part b:
σ2(E) = a · Iexp(n, E) 2 + b2. (2)
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 12496 124961M-5


For every energy E, the model needs to be solved from the FEM solver, which represents the main numerical effort of the process. We use an efficient differential evolution algorithm20–22 to minimize χ2 {p} with geometrical starting points retrieved from the TEM image in figure 3(a). Still, optimizing the model for all parameters from {p} is unfeasible, since the model is numerically expensive. Therefore, a selection of the most influential parameters is done and the remaining parameters are fixed on the basis of the TEM image. The values of the fixed model parameters are summarized in Table 1.
3.5 Results and Discussion
Figure 5. Fitting results and experimental EUV scattermetry data of the forksheet samples. Shown are diffraction orders 0 and 1. The error bars represent the estimated model error. (a) Data of samples with partially removed SiGe layers, (b) data of samples with intact SiGe layers. Insets show the fitted geometry of the samples, color code according to Figure 3(b).
The fitting results of the geometrical parameters of the forksheet sample are presented in Tables 2 and 3. The model error is here estimated conservatively to be given by: a = 0.25, and b = 0.01 (c.f. equation 2). Fixed parameters, that have been retrieved from other sources, like TEM cross section, are given in Table 1. The measured data and the fitted theoretical curves for the zeroth and first diffraction order are presented in Figure 5(a) for the sample with partially removed SiGe sacrificial layers and with intact SiGe in (b). The insets show the geometry outline of the respective fitting results. We find that the fitted model functions describe the observed two diffraction orders in the selected spectral window reasonably well. The comparison of the two slightly different samples shows that EUV scatterometry can in principle resolve small changes such as varying levels of etching. Looking closely at the retrieved geometrical parameters in Tables 2 and 3 we find differences in the individual values, like the fin height, that need further explanation. We had discussed earlier that the outcome of the calculations also depends sensitively on small changes of the geometrical parameters. Comparing the FEM model with the available TEM data in Figure 3, we find that the simplifications made modelling the forksheet structures may have been to strong. Especially the straight walls, the rough approximation of the STIs and the missing voids in the SiN central fin could potentially cause problems. Furthermore, the optical constants were taken from tabulated data, but due to the deposition and etching process during sample manufacturing, the real values can be different, which would alter the calculated spectral data. All these difficulties in modelling combined will likely have an effect on the model fit, such that it is possible that the changes observed between the model parameters of the two samples can partially be attributed to the modelling uncertainty. A further source of uncertainty can be assumed in the measurement process. As described in 10, the sample patch was slightly over-illuminated by the beam, which can cause interference from surrounding structures, that influence the results. Future studies can improve on the method by incorporating measured optical constants from samples, produced under circumstances identical to the actual structured surfaces.18 Solving these points will improve the accuracy of the fits.
A more general challenge in EUV scatterometry concerns the existence of multi-modalities in the used models.23 When the set of free parameters is not restricted to suitable bounds, the optimization can converge to
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 12496 124961M-6


local minima in the χ2 hypersurface as a wrong result. The usage of global optimization schemes, as the here employed differential evolution,20–22 makes it less likely that this will happen, but especially for very deep local minima or if plenty of them exist, fitting algorithms can be trapped in incorrect results. A larger number of free parameters will generally increase the number of local minima, which is a challenge for EUV scatterometry of complex samples. Monte Carlo methods can help to map out and classify multi-modalities in order to approach the correct parameter values.23
Table 1. Fixed model parameters
Name Value Unit
pitch 90.0 nm overetch parameter 2.0 Si spacing 10.0 nm SiGe spacing 8.0 nm STI layer width 3.0 nm density Si 2.33 g/cm3 density Ge 5.32 g/cm3 density SiO2-PEALD 2.20 g/cm3 density SiO2-Flowable STI 2.20 g/cm3 STI height 62.02 nm center STI height 36.15 nm σr (roughness) 0.10 nm
Table 2. Fit results: sample with partially removed SiGe
Name Value Unit
fin height 91.97 nm fin width 66.33 nm fin core width 20.73 nm overetch height 18.59 nm fin offset 9.77 nm relative density SiN 1.02 etch depth 5.12 nm angle of incidence 29.9 deg azimuthal angle 88.9 deg
Table 3. Fit results: samples with intact SiGe
Name Value Unit
fin height 83.09 nm fin width 57.24 nm fin core width 19.0 nm overetch height 23.24 nm fin offset 12.47 nm relative density SiN 1.00 angle of incidence 30.0 deg azimuthal angle 90.0 deg
4. SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK
We presented first EUV scatterometry measurements and data evaluation on next-generation transistor candidates, the forksheet structures. These complex, periodic structures have a pitch of 90 nm and consist of silicon, silicon-germanium, silicon nitride, and silica. We demonstrated the measurement of elastically scattered and diffracted EUV radiation under a steep grazing angle of incidence of 30◦ in a newly developed, compact measurement chamber, installed at PTB’s soft X-ray beamline at the synchrotron radiation facility BESSY II. The reconstruction of geometrical parameters of two similar forksheet samples from scattering data was demonstrated using a detailed FEM model in a numerical optimization scheme. Different from earlier studies, we were able to reconstruct a complex nanostructure with a large number of free parameters, showing for instance how the SiGe sacrificial layer has been etched away in the comparison of two samples. Due to the complexity of the sample and the modeling process, we regard these results as proof-of-concept and suggest several pathways in metrology development, including measurement strategies and optimized model building for the future.
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 12496 124961M-7


ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The authors acknowledge that this project has received funding from the Electronic Component Systems for European Leadership Joint Undertaking under grant agreement 826589 - MADEin4 and grand agreement 875999 - IT2. This Joint Undertaking receives support from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation program alongside Netherlands, France, Belgium, Germany, Czech Republic, Austria, Hungary and Israel.
Data Availability Statement
The data that support the findings of this study are available from the corresponding author upon reasonable request.
Conflict of Interest Statements
The authors have no conflicts to disclose.
REFERENCES
[1] Dixit, D., Keller, N., Kagalwala, T., Recchia, F., Lifshitz, Y., Elia, A., Todi, V., Fronheiser, J., and Vaid, A., “Advanced applications of scatterometry based optical metrology,” in [Metrology, Inspection, and Process Control for Microlithography XXXI], 10145, 497–506, SPIE (2017).
[2] Huang, H.-T. and Terry Jr, F. L., “Spectroscopic ellipsometry and reflectometry from gratings (scatterometry) for critical dimension measurement and in situ, real-time process monitoring,” Thin Solid Films 455, 828–836 (2004). [3] Burger, S., Zschiedrich, L., Pomplun, J., and Schmidt, F., “JCMsuite: An adaptive FEM solver for precise simulations in nano-optics,” in [Integrated Photonics and Nanophotonics Research and Applications], ITuE4, Optica Publishing Group (2008). [4] Soltwisch, V., Fern ́andez Herrero, A., Pfl ̈uger, M., Haase, A., Probst, J., Laubis, C., Krumrey, M., and Scholze, F., “Reconstructing detailed line profiles of lamellar gratings from GISAXS patterns with a Maxwell solver,” Journal of Applied Crystallography 50(5), 1524–1532 (2017).
[5] Herrero, A. F., Pflu ̈ger, M., Probst, J., Scholze, F., and Soltwisch, V., “Applicability of the Debye-Waller damping factor for the determination of the line-edge roughness of lamellar gratings,” Optics Express 27(22), 32490–32507 (2019). [6] Fern ́andez Herrero, A., Scholze, F., Dai, G., and Soltwisch, V., “Analysis of line-edge roughness using EUV scatterometry,” Nanomanufacturing and Metrololgy 5, 149–158 (2022).
[7] Rueda, D. R., Martı ́n-Fabiani, I., Soccio, M., Alayo, N., P ́erez-Murano, F., Rebollar, E., Garcı ́a-Guti ́errez, M. C., Castillejo, M., and Ezquerra, T. A., “Grazing-incidence small-angle X-ray scattering of soft and hard nanofabricated gratings,” Journal of Applied Crystallography 45(5), 1038–1045 (2012). [8] Laubis, C., Barboutis, A., Biel, M., Buchholz, C., Dubrau, B., Fischer, A., Hesse, A., Puls, J., Stadelhoff, C., Soltwisch, V., et al., “Status of EUV reflectometry at PTB,” in [Extreme Ultraviolet (EUV) Lithography IV], 8679, 582–593, SPIE (2013). [9] Scholze, F., Beckhoff, B., Brandt, G., Fliegauf, R., Gottwald, A., Klein, R., Meyer, B., Schwarz, U., Thornagel, R., Tuemmler, J., et al., “High-accuracy EUV metrology of PTB using synchrotron radiation,” in [Metrology, inspection, and process control for microlithography XV], 4344, 402–413, SPIE (2001).
[10] Ciesielski, R., Lohr, L. M., Fern ́andez Herrero, A., Fischer, A., Grothe, A., Mentzel, H., Scholze, F., and Soltwisch, V., “A new sample chamber for hybrid detection of scattering and fluorescence, using synchrotron radiation in the soft X-ray and extreme ultraviolet (EUV) spectral range,” Review of Scientific Instruments 94 (2023).
[11] Soltwisch, V., Wernecke, J., Haase, A., Probst, J., Schoengen, M., Krumrey, M., Scholze, F., Pomplun, J., and Burger, S., “Determination of line profiles on nano-structured surfaces using EUV and X-ray scattering,” in [Photomask Technology 2014], 9235, 322–330, SPIE (2014). [12] Lohr, L. M., Ciesielski, R., Glabisch, S., Schr ̈oder, S., Brose, S., and Soltwisch, V., “Nanoscale grating characterization using EUV scatterometry and soft x-ray scattering with plasma and synchrotron radiation,” Applied Optics 62(1), 117–132 (2023).
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 12496 124961M-8


[13] Bakshi, V., [EUV lithography], Society of Photo-Optical Instrumentation Engineers (SPIE), 2 ed. (2018). [14] Hisamoto, D., Lee, W.-C., Kedzierski, J., Takeuchi, H., Asano, K., Kuo, C., Anderson, E., King, T.-J., Bokor, J., and Hu, C., “FinFET - a self-aligned double-gate MOSFET scalable to 20 nm,” IEEE transactions on electron devices 47(12), 2320–2325 (2000). [15] Hruska, J., “Samsung unveils 3nm gate-all-around design tools.” https://www.extremetech.com/ computing/291507-samsung-unveils-3nm-gate-all-around-design-tools, retrieved 2023-01-05 (May 2019). [16] Degans, H., “IMEC forksheet 2nm device.” https://criticalmaterials.org/ imec-forksheet-2nm-device/, retrieved 2023-01-05 (Dec. 2019). [17] Soltwisch, V., Glabisch, S., Andrle, A., Philipsen, V., Saadeh, Q., Schr ̈oder, S., Lohr, L., Ciesielski, R., and Brose, S., “High-precision optical constant characterization of materials in the EUV spectral range: from large research facilities to laboratory-based instruments,” in [37th European Mask and Lithography Conference], 12472, 123–134, SPIE (2022). [18] Saadeh, Q., Mesilhy, H., Soltwisch, V., Erdmann, A., Ciesielski, R., Lohr, L., Andrle, A., Philipsen, V., Thakare, D., Laubis, C., et al., “Precise optical constants: determination and impact on metrology, simulation, and development of EUV masks,” in [Photomask Technology 2022], 12293, 288–299, SPIE (2022). [19] Henke, B. L., Gullikson, E. M., and Davis, J. C., “X-ray interactions: photoabsorption, scattering, transmission, and reflection at E= 50-30,000 eV, Z= 1-92,” Atomic data and nuclear data tables 54(2), 181–342 (1993). [20] Virtanen, P., Gommers, R., Oliphant, T. E., Haberland, M., Reddy, T., Cournapeau, D., Burovski, E., Peterson, P., Weckesser, W., Bright, J., et al., “SciPy 1.0: fundamental algorithms for scientific computing in Python,” Nature Methods 17(3), 261–272 (2020). package: scipy.optimize.differential evolution(). [21] Storn, R. and Price, K., “Differential evolution - a simple and efficient heuristic for global optimization over continuous spaces,” Journal of global optimization 11(4), 341–359 (1997). [22] Zhu, C., Byrd, R. H., Lu, P., and Nocedal, J., “Algorithm 778: L–BFGS–B: Fortran subroutines for large–scale bound–constrained optimization,” ACM Transactions on Mathematical Software 23(4), 550–560 (1997). [23] Herrero, A. F., Pflu ̈ger, M., Puls, J., Scholze, F., and Soltwisch, V., “Uncertainties in the reconstruction of nanostructures in EUV scatterometry and grazing incidence small-angle X-ray scattering,” Optics Express 29(22), 35580–35591 (2021).
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 12496 124961M-9