EUV Scatterometry – Low-Dose Characterization of Polymer-based Metamaterials
Nicholas W. Jenkins1*, Yuka Esashi1, Yunzhe Shao1, Michael Tanksalvala1, Henry C. Kapteyn1,2, Margaret M. Murnane1, Matthew Atkinson3 1STROBE NSF Science and Technology Center, JILA, University of Colorado Boulder, CO, USA 80309; 2KMLabs, Inc., CO, USA 80301; 3Corporate Research Analytical Laboratory, 3M Center, St. Paul, MN 55144-1000 *Nicholas.w.jenkins@colorado.edu
ABSTRACT
We present recent experiments conducted with our tabletop EUV reflectometer to characterize the detailed geometry, composition, and topography of several nanostructured, polymer-based samples. The EUV measurements are performed without sample damage or any significant sample preparation. Correlative STEM measurements confirm the EUV results, but require extensive sample preparation.
Keywords: EUV metrology, reflectometry, scatterometry, phase retrieval, ptychography, high-harmonic generation, lowdose
1. INTRODUCTION
Nanoscale metrology using coherent extreme-ultraviolet (EUV) or soft x-ray (SXR) light is increasingly of interest for both science and technology. Short EUV/SXR wavelengths have high sensitivity to small length-scales, elemental composition, and electronic and magnetic orders. High harmonic sources can have high spatial and temporal coherence, enabling precise phase-sensitive measurements of nanoscale functional properties (e.g. transport and mechanical), as well as diffraction-limited imaging with both amplitude and phase contrast. To date, many demonstrations of EUV or SXR measurements have been published; however, the majority focus on robust relatively hard materials where damage is not significant concern. As such, there is a pressing need to extend current EUV and SXR techniques to better characterize dose-sensitive materials relevant to nanotechnology, such as polymer-based structures. Here we report on recent experiments using our EUV reflectometer to characterize several dose-sensitive nanostructured polymer samples. Additionally, we report on correlative electron imaging which requires highly specialized sample preparation to avoid sample damage.
2. TABLETOP EUV IMAGING REFLECTOMETER
The tabletop EUV imaging reflectometer setup is shown in Fig. 1(a). It uses coherent EUV light produced by highharmonic generation. Out of the high-harmonic spectral comb, a single wavelength (30 nm) is selected using a pair of multilayer mirrors, and the light is then focused onto the sample using an ellipsoidal mirror. The reflected or the diffracted light from the sample is recorded by an in-vacuum CCD. The sample stage has transverse degrees of freedom to allow navigation, as well as a rotational degree of freedom to change the incidence angle of the light. The camera rotates around the same axis of rotation in a θ–2θ geometry to capture the reflected light from the sample.
3. EUV SCATTEROMETRY DEMONSTRATION ON POLYMER BASED METAMATERIALS
3.1 Sample Description
Four samples from 3M were studied to test the capability of EUV reflectometry for quantifying several key differences. The samples are referred to as S1 - S4, and are shown in Fig. 1(b). Each sample is a multilayered structure built on a polymer substrate with polymer and SiOx layers. The entire top surface of each sample is patterned with a 2D rectangular array of cylindrical holes, with diameter approximately 200nm and periodicity in both directions of approximately 400nm. Each sample has a capping layer, a polymer bulk layer, a buried layer, and a polymer substrate. S1 and S3 have shallower
Metrology, Inspection, and Process Control XXXVIII, edited by Matthew J. Sendelbach, Nivea G. Schuch, Proc. of SPIE Vol. 12955, 1295513 · © 2024 SPIE 0277-786X · doi: 10.1117/12.3009911
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 12955 1295513-1


cylindrical hole depths where as S2 and S4 have ~3X deeper holes. S3 and S4 have slightly increased surface topography when compared to S1 and S2 respectively, and they were included specifically to test the sensitivity of EUV scatterometry to surface topography.
3.2 EUV Scatterometry and Diffraction Modeling
Using the EUV reflectometer, we measured each sample at angles between approximately 10-30 degrees, with 2 degree steps, resulting in 11 angle configurations per sample. At each angle, the sample was scanned in a rectangular 5x5 grid of positions with spacing of 100um in both directions, for a total of 25 CCD frames. Each CCD frame records the 0th order beam and many diffraction spots - from -3 to +3 vertical orders and -2 to +2 horizontal orders, depending on the angle-ofincidence. The diffraction efficiencies of all orders are computed with a straightforward procedure. Background subtraction is performed on each frame individually, and the power for each diffraction spot is computed by summing pixel values within a defined ROI. Next, diffraction efficiency for each order on each frame is computed with the following formula:
DD. EE. = (PP+nn + PP−nn)
(PP+nn + PP−nn+ PP0)
The reported diffraction efficiency vs. angle of incidence is then calculated by averaging the diffraction efficiency for each position at a given angle configuration. The resulting data for the first 3 vertical diffraction orders on each sample is plotted in Fig. 1c-d.
A model of the diffraction from each sample was constructed using RCWA with parameterized hole shape, layer thicknesses, layer densities, and wall tilt. The RCWA models are built using the Matlab-based Reticolo package. Sample and system calibration parameters were solved for in a global optimization by using a genetic algorithm which was partially informed by STEM measurements. The resulting best fit sample models were in good agreement with electron imaging. In the case of S4, the increased surface topography could be solved for with good agreement to AFM measurements.
Figure 1. Tabletop EUV scatterometry measurements of polymer samples. (a) The reflectometer end-station. (b) The four samples mounted in the EUV microscope. (c–d) EUV diffraction efficiency data for each sample.
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 12955 1295513-2


3.3 Electron Imaging and ALD sample preparation
In addition to the EUV measurements, we selected two samples, S2 and S4, for cross-sectional STEM HAADF/EDS imaging. In order to prepare the samples for STEM imaging, it is necessary to mill out and thin a lamella of the samples using a FIB. Protection from the FIB is usually achieved by preparing the sample with a coating such at Pt. However, the high aspect ratio of the features on these samples meant that standard coating techniques might form voids inside the deep holes which would not effectively protect the sample. Therefore, we worked the George group at CU Boulder to prepare the samples with an ALD layer which coated the surface of all features, allowing subsequent protective coatings to be applied. Ultimately, the cross-sectional HAADF/EDS images collected on samples S2 and S4 provided geometric and compositional information, which both verified and partially informed the EUV diffraction modeling.
REFERENCES
[1] Tanksalvala, M. et al., “Nondestructive, high-resolution, chemically specific 3D nanostructure characterization using phase-sensitive EUV imaging reflectometry,” Science Advances 7, 5 (2021). [2] Esashi, Y. et al., “Tabletop extreme ultraviolet reflectometer for quantitative nanoscale reflectometry, scatterometry, and imaging,” Rev. Sci. Instruments 94, 123705 (2023). [3] Hugonin, Jean Paul, and Philippe Lalanne. "Reticolo software for grating analysis," arXiv preprint arXiv:2101.00901 (2021)
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 12955 1295513-3