Quantitative Phase Retrieval for EUV Photomasks
Stuart Sherwina,*, Isvar Cordovab, Ryan Miyakawab, Laura Wallera, Andrew Neureuthera, and Patrick Naulleaub
aUniversity of California Berkeley, Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, Berkeley, USA bCenter for X-Ray Optics, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, USA
ABSTRACT
We present a comparison of experimental techniques for measuring the as-built phase shift of EUV photomasks to meet the unique requirements for EUV lithography at the resolution limit. Attenuated phase-shift masks provide superior image quality for certain applications such as low-k1 contact and pillar arrays, offering increased throughput and reduced stochastic printing failures. But whereas the traditional phase-shift is π, rigorous electromagnetic simulations suggest the optimal phase-shift for an EUV photomask must be adjusted to account for 3D effects, which are themselves difficult to measure. In this work, we explore at-wavelength metrology including reflectometry, scatterometry, and phase imaging for measuring multilayer and absorber reflectance, as well as complex scattering amplitudes for a grating with pitch p = 420nm and duty-cycle D = 0.33. Using rigorous electromagnetic simulations, we find that relying only on reflectometery and the Fresnel thin-mask model predicts the complex scattering amplitudes with only 22% accuracy due to 3D effects, whereas a combination of scatterometry and through-focus imaging can achieve a promising 0.6% accuracy, and a combination of scatterometry and Zernike Phase-Contrast imaging can achieve a superior 0.1% accuracy. Experimental results based on imaging and scatterometry clearly display 3D effects that differ substantially from idealized rigorous simulations, suggesting the difficulty of accurately predicting 3D effects and hence the need to accurately measure them.
Keywords: EUV, Phase, Attenuated PSM, Reflectometry, Scatterometry, Absorber, Multilayer, PhaseLift
Introduction
Recent work suggests that attenuated phase-shift masks (aPSMs) can provide substantial improvements in image quality for printing patterns such as low-k1 dense contact and pillar arrays.1 The traditional design of an aPSM employs a π phase-shift between the absorber and background to create destructive interference in the forwardscattered light; however, rigorous simulations suggest that a modification to approximately 1.2π should provide the best image quality at the feature sizes of interest.1 This modification is thought to arise as compensation for Mask 3D (M3D) effects; as the pitch decreases and the illumination moves further from normal incidence, the reflection function becomes increasingly distorted from the Fresnel thin-mask model. Therefore, there are really multiple quantities of interest when discussing the phase of an EUV mask. There is the relative phase of the multilayer and absorber Fresnel reflectance coefficients; and there is the relative phase of each diffracted wave at each location on the mask. The former is a single scalar, describing the pattern across the entire mask; the latter takes many values, with a different complex amplitude for each diffracted wave from each feature on the mask.
To measure these quantities, we explore at-wavelength metrology including reflectometry, scatterometry, and phase imaging; each measurement modality provides complementary information about the phase and amplitude of reflections from the photomask. We consider measuring a single feature on a single photomask, consisting of a 60-nm TaN absorber and a 40-bilayer MoSi multilayer mirror. The feature in question is a grating with pitch p = 420nm and duty-cycle D = 0.33 (one-third multilayer, two-thirds absorber). This is a fairly relaxed pitch (4.3× the diffraction limit), but nonetheless we observe significant M3D effects in both experiment and
Further author information: (Send correspondence to Stuart Sherwin) Stuart Sherwin: E-mail: stuartsherwin@berkeley.edu
Extreme Ultraviolet (EUV) Lithography XI, edited by Nelson M. Felix, Anna Lio, Proc. of SPIE Vol. 11323, 1132315 · © 2020 SPIE CCC code: 0277-786X/20/$21 · doi: 10.1117/12.2552967
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 11323 1132315-1


idealized Rigorous Coupled-Wave Analysis (RCWA) simulations carried out using the Panoramic EM-Suite API for Matlab. The simulations are idealized in that they assume the photomask is the film-stack derived from reflectometry, with no surface roughness and a vertical etch.
Section 1.1 introduces the reflectometry data and discusses how we determine the thin-film model and relative reflectance. Section 1.2 introduces the scatterometry data and explains our approach to measure the relative reflectance phase via a Fresnel square-wave approximation. Section 1.3 introduces Zernike Phase-Contrast imaging, explains our PhaseLift-inspired phase retrieval algorithm, and analyzes the simulated and experimental images (Fig. 1). Section 2.1 discusses the simulated phase retrieval accuracy of different phase measurement modalities (Fig. 2) and provides recommendations for academic and commercial applications. Finally, section 2.2 discusses the experimentally recovered complex scattering amplitudes (Fig. 3), and compares the experimental result with simulation. Many technical details are withheld from the main text and presented in the Appendices (3.1-3.9).
1. ANALYSIS
1.1 Reflectometry
In reflectometry, performed at ALS Reflectometry and Scattering Beamline 6.3.2,2 we measure the reflectivity of flat multilayer and absorber surfaces under monochromatic plane-wave illumination in order to recover a physical parametric model of the film-stacks on the photomask, and thereby the complex relative reflectance of the two surfaces. Our measurements consist of both multilayer and absorber reflectivity for 101 wavelengths from 12.5 − 14.5nm and 9 angles from 2 − 10o. We perform a nonlinear least-squares regression from the space of reflectivity measurements to the space of film-stack parameters for the multilayer and absorber including thickness, density, and interface roughness.3 From this model, we extract the complex reflectance of multilayer (rML) and absorber-on-multilayer (rAbs), which together define the relative reflectance r = rAbs
rML .
1.2 Scatterometry
In scatterometry, also performed at Beamline 6.3.2, we illuminate a periodic grating rather than a flat surface. The grating scatters light into diffraction orders, which correspond to integer multiples of the fundamental grating frequency that propagate at different angles. So by scanning the angle of the diode detector we measure the fraction of intensity scattered to each diffraction order. We use 41 wavelengths from 13 − 14nm, 5 illumination angles at 2 − 10o, and 106 detector angles from 2 − 12.5o corresponding roughly to a chief ray angle of 6 degrees and an NA of 0.55
4 . The scatterometry fit is based on approximating the measured scattering intensity with the Fresnel thin-mask model for a square-wave (Appendix 3.1-3.2). To maintain consistency with reflectometry, we do not modify r except with a multiplicative factor of the form exp [i (φ0 + mkz)] (Appendix 3.3). Unfortunately we find that a square-wave is inadequate to model the scattering simulated by RCWA, with over 15% error in the complex plane. However, we still find the scatterometry data to be useful, because combining it with phase imaging (Appendix 3.8) improves the accuracy of fitting the RCWA scattering by roughly an order of magnitude.
1.3 Zernike Phase-Contrast Imaging
A Zernike Phase-Contrast (ZPC) image uses a phase-shifting region in the aperture aligned with the illumination, which produces a 0-order phase-shift relative to the rest of the image. In our case, we encode 6 different phaseshifts into a set of off-axis zone-plates that operate at λ = 13.5nm, with 0.55/4 NA and 6o chief-ray angle (further details in Appendix 3.4). In total, our ZPC imaging data set consists of 90 ZPC images: 6 0-order phase-shifts in steps of 60o, each with 15 focus steps of 300nm. The images are used to recover the amplitude and phase of each scattered wave in the far-field for our feature of interest. The advantage of this model-free approach is that it can equally well capture any M3D effects that may be present. The principle of phase-imaging in general is to use one or more images acquired under known conditions to mathematically invert the imaging process and recover the complex field in terms of its Fourier coefficients (Appendix 3.6). In this work we recover the phase and amplitude of the 9 Fourier coefficients of our grating using a PhaseLift4-inspired algorithm (Appendix 3.7-3.9). We consider two phase imaging modalities, both based on coherent, conventional illumination: through-focus (TF), and Zernike phase-contrast (ZPC) imaging.
Fig. 1 shows three examples of the 90 1D ZPC images for: simulated reflectometry thin-mask (top); idealized RCWA scattering simulation (middle); and the experimental measurement (bottom). Each column is a 1D
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 11323 1132315-2


Figure 1: Comparison of ZPC images ZPC images including 6 phase shifts and 15 focus steps for three cases: simulated reflectometry thin-mask (top); simulated RCWA (center); measured experimentally (bottom). The thin-mask simulation is mostly symmetric through-focus, whereas both the RCWA simulation and the measured data show much more pronounced asymmetry. But while both RCWA and experiment deviate from the thinmask, the deviations are visibly different suggesting that the geometry defined in RCWA does not represent the actual photomask accurately enough to predict the M3D effects.
intensity image of the grating’s 9 Fourier coefficients under a different phase-only transfer function. This phase variation comes from defocus (sub-columns) and the 0-order phase shift (super-columns). The reflectometry thinmask at 0 phase-shift is nearly symmetric through focus, with positive focus just slightly darker than negative focus. By comparison, RCWA at 0 phase-shift is much brighter at negative focus than positive focus while the measured result is much brighter at positive focus. For each 0-order phase-shift, we see a similar situation whereby the RCWA and measured results both show deviations from the reflectometry thin-mask of similar magnitude, but often deviating in different directions. This is suggestive of complex M3D effects, that are substantially
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 11323 1132315-3


different from the predictions of our idealized RCWA simulations (which assume a rectangular-prism geometry). Note that if the M3D effects are not accurately predicted by simulations, the absorber design determined by such simulations will likely be be sub-optimal.
2. DISCUSSION
2.1 Accuracy
Figure 2: Comparison of accuracy Simulated accuracy for recovering complex scattering amplitudes. The lowest error achieved by each method is: reflectometry (22%); scatterometry (16%); TF imaging (10%); ZPC imaging (0.4%); TF plus scatterometry (0.6%); ZPC plus scatterometry (0.1%). From these results, ZPC plus scatterometry is best suited for fundamental exploratory work, while TF plus scatterometry may provide an attractive alternative for commercial applications due to the lower hardware complexity.
Figure 2 summarizes the simulated performance of different methods as a function of noise level (uniform Gaussian white noise of standard deviation σ). The error metric is = ‖y−yˆ‖2
‖y‖2 , where y and yˆ are respectively the true and approximated vectors of 9 complex diffraction amplitudes (Appendix 3.5), and ‖ · ‖2 is the standard Euclidean distance. Defining the error over the complex plane essentially makes an aberration-agnostic error metric. More formally 2 is proportional to the expected image prediction error of the model under arbitrary aberration conditions. So whereas quantifies each model’s accuracy in a general setting, to assess the accuracy for a particular lithographic application would require additional knowledge of the aberration and source conditions.
We are able to glean several insights from the simulations based on the best-case accuracy: First, the Fresnel thin-mask model (reflectometry) deviates substantially from the ground-truth RCWA, with an accuracy of only 22%, which underscores the need to model M3D effects to accurately predict the field. Second, the scatterometry fit reduces the error to 16%; so while the model may still not be sufficiently accurate, the scatterometry data at least partially captures the M3D effects. Note that this error is not a fundamental limitation of scatterometry but rather reflects our relatively simple square-wave approximation; more sophisticated approaches could likely achieve better accuracy. Third, TF imaging achieves 10% error, which is substantially better but is still probably insufficient. Fourth, ZPC imaging performs much better, achieving an error of 0.4%, or more than an order of magnitude below TF. Fifth, and very interesting for a practical implementation, combining TF imaging with the scatterometry data performs comparably to ZPC imaging (0.6% error); this seems to provide quite good accuracy without requiring exotic hardware such as ZPC objectives. Finally, the absolute best performance is achieved with ZPC and scatterometry (0.1% error); because of this superior accuracy, this would be best suited for fundamental and exploratory work studying M3D effects.
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 11323 1132315-4


Figure 3: Phase retrieval (a): scattering amplitudes of diffraction orders in the complex plane. Diffraction indices (m = fx
p ) are labeled with respective color for Reflectometry (blue), RCWA (black), and ZPC + Scatter [Experiment] (green). Blue and red curves (reflectometry and scatterometry) are based on the thin-mask model, so nonzero diffraction orders fall along a line passing through the origin. For black (RCWA) and green (experiment) on the other hand, the nonzero orders almost fall along lines not passing through the origin, due to M3D effects. Differences between RCWA and experiment suggest that the M3D effects in the actual photomask are quite different than those in the idealized simulation. But despite quantitative differences, the experimental result seems physically plausible; for example, the real-space phase (c) and amplitude (b) and very smooth (even smoother than RCWA or thin-mask), and the Fourier-space amplitude (d) displays the expected shadowing asymmetry, with negative orders larger than positive ones.
2.2 Experimental phase retrieval
Figure 3 (a) plots the complex amplitudes of diffraction orders for Reflectometry (blue), RCWA (black), Scatterometry [RCWA] (red), Scatterometry [Experiment] (red, dotted), ZPC + Scatter [Experiment] (green). Diffraction indices m = fx
p are labeled with the respective color for blue, black, and green. For all curves,
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 11323 1132315-5


the 0 order falls along the positive real axis and the ±1 orders have equal phase (Appendix 3.5). Reflectometry and scatterometry (blue and red) are calculated with the Fresnel thin-mask model, and as such all nonzero orders fall along a single line that passes through the origin. In both the idealized RCWA simulation (black) and the experiment (green), we observe deviation from these thin-mask curves. In both cases, the nonzero diffraction orders fall almost along a line in the complex plane, but the line does not pass through the origin. Looking at the amplitude in Fourier-space (d), we can see that in both cases positive diffraction orders (high-angle) systematically have lower amplitude than negative ones (low-angle). From the amplitude in real-space (b) we can see that the maximum occurs at a x < 0 in RCWA and x > 0 in the experiment. This seems at first to suggest that the simulation is merely flipped, but the phase (c) tells somewhat a different story as the left and right edges of the feature are clearly more similar without flipping the x-axis. So, while experimental error is one possibility to explain the differences between the simulation and experiment, a more likely possibility is that the idealized geometry of the RCWA simulation did not quantitatively predict as-built M3D effects. This result underscores the importance of developing the capability to experimentally measure complex scattering amplitudes from as-built EUV photomasks to understand and model as-built M3D effects.
Conclusion
We have assessed using at-wavelength reflectometry, scatterometry, and phase imaging for measuring the phase and amplitude of reflections from EUV masks. Rigorous Coupled-Wave Analysis (RCWA) simulations demonstrate the need for metrology of not only the Fresnel reflectance, but also the amplitude and phase of scattered waves. Even for our feature 4.3× above the diffraction limit, where Mask 3D effects should be relatively low, the Fresnel thin-mask model was only 22% accurate at predicting the rigorous scattering; by combining scatterometry and phase-imaging, we can do much better, achieving a promising 0.6% accuracy with Through-Focus (TF) imaging, and a superior 0.1% accuracy with Zernike-Phase Contrast (ZPC) imaging. TF imaging with scatterometry is a promising option for high-volume commercial applications due to the relatively simple hardware required; ZPC imaging with scatterometry, due to its superior accuracy, seems to provide the best vehicle for more exploratory studies into the fundamentals of EUV M3D effects. And indeed, differences between idealized RCWA simulations and our experiment further motivate the need to continue such fundamental studies in order to bring EUV lithography closer to its ultimate resolution limit.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
This research is sponsored by C-DEN (Center for Design-Enable Nanofabrication). Member companies – ARM, ASML, Cadence, Carl Zeiss Group, Intel, KLA-Tencor, Mentor Graphics, and Qualcomm.
This work was performed in part at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory which is operated under the auspices of the Director, Office of Science, of the U.S. Department of Energy under Contract No. DE-AC02-05CH11231.
REFERENCES
[1] M.-C. van Lare, F. J. Timmermans, and J. Finders, “Alternative reticles for low-k1 euv imaging,” in International Conference on Extreme Ultraviolet Lithography 2019, 11147, p. 111470D, International Society for Optics and Photonics, 2019. [2] E. M. Gullikson, S. Mrowka, and B. B. Kaufmann, “Recent developments in euv reflectometry at the advanced light source,” in Emerging Lithographic Technologies V, 4343, pp. 363–373, International Society for Optics and Photonics, 2001. [3] S. Sherwin, I. Cordova, L. Waller, A. Neureuther, and P. Naulleau, “Measuring the phase of euv photomasks,” in International Conference on Extreme Ultraviolet Lithography 2019, 11147, p. 111471F, International Society for Optics and Photonics, 2019. [4] E. J. Candes, T. Strohmer, and V. Voroninski, “Phaselift: Exact and stable signal recovery from magnitude measurements via convex programming,” Communications on Pure and Applied Mathematics 66(8), pp. 1241–1274, 2013. [5] R. Ahrenkiel, “Modified kramers-kronig analysis of optical spectra,” JOSA 61(12), pp. 1651–1655, 1971.
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 11323 1132315-6


[6] L.-H. Yeh, J. Dong, J. Zhong, L. Tian, M. Chen, G. Tang, M. Soltanolkotabi, and L. Waller, “Experimental robustness of fourier ptychography phase retrieval algorithms,” Optics Express 23(26), pp. 33214–33240, 2015. [7] S. Boyd, S. P. Boyd, and L. Vandenberghe, Convex Optimization, Cambridge University Press, 2004. [8] L. N. Trefethen and D. Bau III, Numerical Linear Algebra, vol. 50, Siam, 1997.
3. APPENDIX
3.1 Fresnel thin-mask model definition
The Fresnel thin-mask model is an approximation to the near-field reflection function of an EUV mask. To generate the model, we normalize the multilayer reflectance to 1, and represent the absorber with the relative reflectance r = rAbs/rML . Assume that the mask has a known binary pattern P (x, y); then we compute the Fresnel thin-mask model as:
E (x, y) = r + [1 − r] P (x, y)
3.2 Fresnel square-wave model
For the case of a 1D grating with pitch p duty cycle D, we can compute the diffraction pattern based on the analytic Fourier-transform of a square-wave:
sm =
{ D + (1 − D) r, m = 0
(1 − r) sin mπD
mπ , m 6= 0
where m is the diffraction order index, and sm is the complex amplitude of spatial frequency m/p.
3.3 Consistency of reflectometry and scatterometry
We would like the square-wave scatterometry model to remain consistent with the Fresnel reflectance measured with reflectometry. This leads us to freeze the relative reflectance, and only update the initial phase offset and a phase ramp vs kz. Mathematically we implement this by multiplying by a factor of the form exp [i (φ0 + mkz)]. These changes are allowed because the reflectometry measurement is not sensitive to these quantities. Specifically, the Kramers-Kronig integrals guarantee a unique phase function for every log-amplitude function of ω—unique up to initial phase,5 hence why we allow a constant phase shift. We include a term linear in kz because it corresponds to a physically plausible change in the relative reference plane between the two reflection coefficients. An alternative justification for the phase ramp in kz is that this corresponds to correcting an average error in the log-amplitude integrated over the measured frequency range.
3.4 Zone-plate design
We fabricated 6 ZPC objectives, with 0-order phase shifts in steps of 60o. Each objective is an off-axis zone plate designed to operate at λ = 13.5nm, θ = 6o, NA=0.55/4. The innermost 10% of the NA is phase-shifted, with a 2.5% attenuating deadband surrounding the phase-shift region; the remaining outer 87.5% of the NA is a standard off-axis zone plate. The deadband is helpful for alignment, but otherwise unnecessary for the method. In our case, the diffraction orders are separated by over 20% of the NA. Therefore, if the 0-order is aligned to the center of the zone plate and the illumination is a plane-wave with σ < 0.1 we should obtain the desired image, where the 0-order is entirely phase-shifted and the scattered light is entirely imaged with no phase shift.
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 11323 1132315-7


3.5 Phase degeneracies
For our chosen feature, 9 diffraction orders are captured by the lens. To recover any useful phase information, it is imperative to include enough diffraction orders to resolve phase degeneracies in intensity-only phase-retrieval. The number of degrees of freedom for the phase is somewhere from 1-4, depending on the dimensionality of the pattern and whether there is an absolute reference for lateral and axial position. One degeneracy arising from a constant phase-shift is inevitable but physically insignificant in an intensity image; we resolve this degeneracy by applying a constant phase-shift to enforce the 0-order to have 0 phase. An additional degree of freedom arises for each dimension lacking an absolute position reference; mathematically, this allows for us to multiply by a phase ramp in (kx, ky, kz). Because we have a 1D grating pattern, we only have two translational degeneracies in (kx, kz). We resolve the first degeneracy applying a phase-ramp in kx to equalize the phase of the ±1 orders. The phase-ramp in kz is more subtle to resolve; in this work, we determine the kz phase-ramp as the translation in z at which the scattered waves (excluding the 0-order) are best approximated by a straight line in the complex plane, based on linear least-squares. Therefore, the phase of our 9 complex diffraction orders are described by only 6 degrees of freedom due to the 3 constraints regarding a constant phase and phase ramps in (kx, kz).
3.6 Approaches to image-based phase retrieval
There are many existing approaches to phase retrieval from intensity-only images. However, common approaches which rely on programmed angles of illumination such as Fourier Ptychography,6 may be inaccurate in this context due to M3D effects. This issue arises because generally the assumption in such methods is that the mask is “thin,” meaning that the complex reflection function is independent of illumination angle. This does not apply to EUV photomasks, due to M3D effects. Therefore, we restrict ourselves to coherent imaging methods using conventional illumination, σ < 0.1, such that the mask reflection function is roughly constant across the entire source. The simplest of these methods would be through-focus phase imaging such as by inverting the Transport of Intensity Equation, or fitting with least-squares. However, this suffers from the fundamental problem that the phase of the defocus kernel is approximately parabolic in spatial frequency, meaning that quadratically larger focus steps are required to accurately measure the phase of low spatial frequencies relative to the 0-order. This inspires the ZPC approach, which we believe to be a heuristically good design for two reasons: first, we operate only at a single illumination angle, ensuring that whatever M3D effects are present are not varying between acquisitions; second, by applying a phase-shift to only the 0-order, we obtain an equal diversity of phase measurements across all spatial frequencies.
3.7 Phase retrieval using PhaseLift
In this work, we adopt the PhaseLift optimization framework for phase retrieval as opposed to more commonly used nonlinear least-squares approaches. PhaseLift is a convex formulation of phase retrieval,4 meaning that the optimization is guaranteed to converge to a global optimum regardless of the initial guess.7 However, this attractive mathematical property comes with a heavy computational cost. Indeed, the unknown variable must be redefined from a vector E ∈ Cn of diffraction orders to a Hermitian positive semi-definite (PSD) matrix X ∈ Cn×n
+ representing the autocorrelation of diffracted waves, X = EE∗, where Cn×n
+ ⊂ Cn×n is the set of n × n Hermitian PSD matrices. This lifting of the problem to a higher dimension allows one to solve a linear least-squares problem in the unknown matrix X, as opposed to a nonlinear least-squares problem in the unknown vector E.4
Concretely, in the nonlinear least-squares approach we define our problem as:6
min
E∈Cn
N
∑
i=1
∥ ∥ ∥
√Ii − |F∗diag(hi)E|
∥ ∥ ∥
2
2
+ ρ (E)
where E is the Fourier-transform of our unknown field, Ii is the measured intensity for image i; F is the matrix representation of the Fourier-transform; diag(·) is a function that maps a vector to a diagonal matrix and viceversa; hi is the known pupil function for image i; and ρ(·) is a regularizer function to enforce prior knowledge about E. Although imaging is linear in electric field, it is nonlinear in amplitude due to the absolute-value. Therefore, reconstructing the field from intensity images requires solving nonlinear least-squares, and is generally
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 11323 1132315-8


non-convex. The primary advantage of lifting our problem to a higher dimension is that now a linear operator maps the unknown variable to the measured intensity: L : Cn×n → Rm×N , where m is the number of pixels per intensity image, and N is the number of intensity images. Specifically, the mapping is:
(Ii)j = e∗
j F∗diag [hi] Xdiag [h∗
i ] Fej = a∗
i,j vec [X]
where (Ii)j is the measurement in image i at pixel j; ej is the jth standard basis vector; and a∗
i,j ∈ C1×n2 is the matrix representation of the functional that maps the (vectorized) matrix X to measurement (i, j). Note that a∗
i,j is one row of the matrix representation of L. In this work, we explicitly construct the matrix representation of L by evaluating the linear operator on a basis for the set of n × n Hermitian matrices. This is often a computationally impractical approach for 2D images, but is not overwhelming in our case of a 1D image of m = 256 pixels, n = 9 diffraction orders, and N = 90 images. Ultimately the size of our matrix is a tractable L ∈ CmN×n2 = C23040×81, requiring approximately 30Mb of memory at double precision. Our optimization problem can now be written as:
min
X∈Cn×n
+
‖vec [I] − Lvec [X]‖2
2 + ρ (E)
An advantage of explicitly forming the matrix L is that it allows for numerically stable pre-computation of the pseudo-inverse L† via the truncated SVD. This enables a least-squares update based on applying L† instead of L∗ to the residuals, which should more efficiently invert the linear system by accounting for correlation between measurements.
One additional complication in PhaseLift is that, while the problem is convex, the solution is not necessarily unique because the matrix L is not full-rank. However, we have a very strong piece of information about X: namely that the true X = EE∗ is a rank-1 matrix. It has been shown that by imposing a nuclear-norm penalty with sufficient phase diversity in the measurements, exact recovery of any low-rank matrix is guaranteed with overwhelming probability.4 The nuclear-norm prior is a penalty of the form ‖X‖∗ = ‖diag[S]‖1 = ∑
i (S)ii, where
USV∗ = X is the singular-value decomposition of X. Note that in our special case of X ∈ Cn×n
+ we may write ‖X‖∗ = trace[X] because the trace is the sum of the eigenvalues, which are equivalent to the singular values for a Hermitian PSD matrix.8 Although non-differentiable, the nuclear-norm penalty is convex, and can be enforced with a proximal update consisting of soft-thresholding the singular values: X 7→ U(softThresh[S, α])V∗,4 where softThresh(x, α) = (x/|x|) max[0, |x| − α] is the proximal operator for ‖ · ‖1.7
3.8 Scatterometry data augmentation
Furthermore, we also consider combining the imaging and scatterometry data within this iterative PhaseLift framework. The addition of scatterometry data constrains the amplitude of X. Concretely,
X = EE∗ ⇒ |X| = |E||E|∗
In scatterometry, we directly measure y ≈ |E|. Define |X0| = yy∗ to be the amplitude of the autocorrelation matrix, as measured by scatterometry. We enforce the constraint |X| ≈ |X0| with the following update, which preserves the phase of X and replaces the modulus with a convex combination of |X| and |X0| for some β ∈ (0, 1):
X= X
|X| [β|X0| + (1 − β) |X|]
where all binary operations should be understood to be carried out element-wise. Note that this constraint makes our formulation no longer convex; however, including it in simulation reduces the error by roughly an order of magnitude for both TF and ZPC imaging data. Our final optimization problem can now be written as:
min
X∈Cn×n
+
trace[X]=1
‖vec [I] − Lvec [X]‖2
2 + α1‖X‖∗ + α2‖|X| − |X0|‖2
2
where the first term penalizes error with respect to imaging data, the second promotes a low-rank solution, and the third penalizes error with respect to scatterometry data. We also impose that X is Hermitian PSD, and of unit trace (unit energy). Constants α1 and α2 are scalars that respectively determine the strength of the low-rank and scatterometry penalties relative to the imaging error.
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 11323 1132315-9


3.9 Algorithm pseudo-code
To solve this problem, we use the following algorithm (with hyperparameters determined by hand-tuning):
Niter = 1000 // Number of iterations β0 = 10−2 //Imaging least-squares step size β1 = 10−2 //Low-rank constraint strength β2 = 10−4 //Scatterometry constraint strength Initialize X ∈ Cn×n
+
for iter = 1:Niter r = vec[I] − Lvec[X] //Calculate imaging residuals X = X − β0L†r //Imaging least-squares update X= X
|X0| [β2|X0| + (1 − β2) |X|] //Scatterometry update
USV∗ = svd[X] //Compute SVD of X X = U(softThresh[S, β1])V∗ //Nuclear norm prox X= X
trace[X] //Unit energy constraint
USV∗ = svd[X] //Compute SVD of X E = U(:, 1) //Extract rank-1 component: recovered field
Proc. of SPIE Vol. 11323 1132315-10